The B2G User Interface
======================

Basic Screen Navigation
-----------------------

While the Left, Right, Up, and Down keys (of the D-Pad) can be used to 
navigate the screen, they don't actually work very well. The reason they 
don't is that they try to be too accurate. If the next screen element in 
the requested direction isn't close enough to being exactly in that 
direction then it doesn't get found.

The best way to navigate the screen is to use the Forward and Backward 
keys because they move sequentially through the screen elements without 
missing any of them. The Forward key stops at the end of the screen, and 
the Backward key stops at the beginning of the screen. While these keys, 
when used on their own, perform more refined navigation within certain 
contexts (see below), combining them with the Space key can always be 
used to force this basic functionality.

If the text of a screen element is longer than the braille display 
and/or has more than one line then the Forward key pans to the right, 
wraps to the start of the next line, etc, as needed, so that all of the 
text is presented. When it reaches the end, it then moves to the start 
of the next element. The Backward key moves through such text in the 
reverse direction, and when it reaches the start of the text it then 
moves to the start of the previous element.

Some key combinations perform basic system actions:
  * Space + dots 123456 is the Home button (which goes to the app launcher).
  * Space+z (dots 1356) is the Back button.
  * Space+n (dots 1345) goes to the Notifications screen.
  * Space+r (dots 1235) goes to the Recent Apps screen.
  * Space + dots 1478 goes to the Power Off screen.
  * The Center key (of the D-Pad) taps (clicks) the current screen element.
  * Space+Center holds (long clicks) the current screen element.

Editable Text Fields
--------------------

Dot 8 is used to show where the cursor is, and dots 7 and 8 together are 
used to show which characters have been selected. Note that the cursor 
isn't shown when at least one character has been selected.

Dots 1 through 6 are used, as defined by the North American Braille 
Computer Code, to type characters, and the Space key is used to type a 
space. Add dot 7 to a letter to make it uppercase. If no characters have 
been selected then, when a character is typed, it is inserted where the 
cursor is. If characters have been selected then the next typed 
character replaces them.

Dot 8 is the Enter key. If the field supports more than one line, this 
key ends the current line and starts a new one.

Dot 7 is the Backspace key. It deletes the character to the left of the 
cursor. If characters have been selected then it deletes all of them.

Space+d (dots 145) is the Delete key. It deletes the character where the 
cursor is. If characters have been selected then it deletes all of them.

The Forward and Backward keys navigate through the text as defined 
previously, except that they will not leave the field. They must be used 
in combination with the Space key to force an immediate move to the 
start of the next or previous field.

The four directional keys (of the D-Pad) move the cursor through the 
text, one step at a time. They will not leave the field. The braille 
display is panned, as needed, such that the cursor is always visible.

The Left key moves the cursor to the previous character of the current 
line. If the cursor is on the first character of the line then it wraps 
to the last character of the previous line. If characters are selected 
then the cursor is moved to just before the first selected character, 
and the character selection is cleared.

The Right key moves the cursor to the next character of the current 
line. If the cursor is on the last character of the line then it wraps 
to the first character of the next line. If characters are selected then 
the cursor is moved to just after the last selected character, and the 
character selection is cleared.

The Up key moves the cursor to the same column of the previous line. If 
the previous line is too short then the cursor is also moved to the left 
as needed. If characters are selected then the cursor is moved to just 
above the first selected character, and the character selection is 
cleared.

The Down key moves the cursor to the same column of the next line. If 
the next line is too short then the cursor is also moved to the left as 
needed. If characters are selected then the cursor is moved to just 
below the last selected character, and the character selection is 
cleared.

Pressing a cursor key brings the cursor to that character. If 
characters were selected then the character selection is cleared.

Pressing a cursor key in combination with the Backward key sets the 
first selected character, and pressing a cursor key in combination with 
the Forward key sets the last selected character. If either of these 
actions is performed while characters are already selected then the 
start or end of the selection is readjusted as requested.

Pressing a cursor key in combination with the Space key scrolls the 
braille display such that the visible portion of the current line begins 
with that character.
